All right,
let's start working with the cart now.
So we're obviously gonna be able to add things
to our cart and display what's in our cart
and add up the total and all that good stuff.
But before we do that, we need to work on the backend
and create a new data type, that is a cart item.
So the way that it's gonna work is we have a user
and a user has a cart.
That's just gonna be a field on our user.
Whoever the items in the user's cart are going to
be this new data type that's referred to as cart items.
And if I take a look at like a cart item, like, right here
it's going to have a product
which is a link to an existing product.
And then we are also gonna have a user which has a link
to a user, and then we'll have a quantity, which is how many
of that product does the user have in their cart.
So let's go into our schemas and let's take Product.ts
and let's just duplicate that.
So I'm gonna to save it as capital C Cart
capital I Item.ts
And we will rename this to CartItem.
And what do we got here?
We got our fields.
So we don't need...
we can get rid of all the fields that are in there.
So essentially just a new Keystone list where the fields are
well, first thing is we want the quantity.
How many of these items will they have?
And that is going to be an integer.
So we have to, oh, it already auto imported
but you see how it's importing
from Keystone fields right here.
Then inside of that integer, we want a couple options.
We wanna say the default value is 1 and is it required?
And that is true.
Then another field that we want is the product
that we are linking to
and that is going to be a relationship.
And the reference is going to be the name of the data type.
So if we look at our capital P Product
that's this one right here.
So we name it capital P Product.
And then the user is going to have a reference
of User.cart.
So what we're saying here is we're gonna
have a two way relationship where a cart item will link
to a user and a user will link to cart items.
And that way we have a two-way relationship where
we don't have to always update them on one side or another.
Some CMS has make you do that, but in Keystone
you don't have to.
And okay, so that's the default we want there.
We also want...
We're just gonna put a quick little to do custom label
in here 'cause the label is just gonna give us the ID
of the cart item.
And that isn't very, very helpful.
So we go back into our Keystone.ts
and go to where we have created our schema.
We have our user, our product, our product image,
now we're gonna to have our CartItem.
I just hit Enter there when it auto suggested it
and it went ahead and imported the cart item
from our schema there.
Next thing we want to do is go into our User.ts
and we need to add our cart field to the user.
So we'll go right below where we put the password here.
And we'll say the user's cart is going to be a relationship.
The reference is going to be a CartItem.user.
So see how we're doing a two-way relationship here.
The user is referenced to user.cart
and then the cart is a relation to CartItem.user.
And that's how we get that two-way relationship.
We can say many is true, meaning that the user
can have multiple relationships to cart items.
You wanna have multiple things in your cart.
Then the UI value that we have here is createview
is field mode will be a string of hidden
and item view field mode of read.
And we'll see what that is in just a sec.
All right, so what we just did there
is we created a new data type called CartItem.
We updated our user and then we imported that CartItem
into our schema.
Now, if we restart our backend.
We should now see that the Cart Item data type shows up
in our sidebar here.
There we go, Cart Item.
You can go ahead and create a new cart item,
quantity of 3.
We can link to the Yeti cooler on which user will have that.
And then click on Create, Oh, I think the click set
Wes boss, and then click Create Item, there we go.
And then here we see that that is our cart item.
If we go down to a list of the cart items
you're going to see that.
(instructor laughing)
What does this mean to me?
Right? And you can select the product
and the quantity and the user.
And you can see these things are now showing
up ID, Quantity, Product, User.
We can make those show up by default by going to our list.
And we'll say UI.
And then inside of the UI you can see what options you have.
By just hitting Option + Space or no Control+ Space.
And it will give you all the possible properties
that are in here, no need to go to the docs.
That's really, really cool.
And you can see in here, create view, hide, create, hide
delete is hidden item view, label, view, list view.
So we go to list view, cause that's this view right here.
And then inside the list view we say initial columns
and the initial columns is.
I think we give it a.
Here we go, oh, look at that.
This is, this is why you like using TypeScript.
So you look at it just
auto-populates the fields that are possible in here.
You don't have to type it or copy paste like a sucker.
So the product, the quantity
and user is what we want initially to show up.
I don't know if that will change
because I've since changed it myself by doing this.
But that is a good thing to have
'cause that's one less email you're gonna get
from your client and being like,
"Hey I can't see any data
about the things in the cart item."
This is not necessarily something you're gonna
be managing a user's cart with, but it's good
to show anyway, have some really nice defaults.
So that is our initial creating of the cart item value.
And let's get into the next one.